# ANT3814 Examen final partie 2: Bioinformatics

1) How can a dN / dS value be used to detect natural selection in a protein coding gene?

2)  Which HyPhy module did we use to detect positive selection in entire protein-coding genes (not single amino acid sites)? 

A) absrel
B) busted
C) fel
D) slac

3) Describe how the RELAX method in HyPhy can be used to detect relaxed or intensified selection pressure on a set of branches in a phylogenetic tree.

4) Outline the basic steps to run the RELAX method at the command line in HyPhy, including the necessary input files and any optional parameters that we specified.

5) What is the name of the online data repository that we used to download DNA sequence data?

6) Which of the following is a function of MAFFT in phylogenetics?

A) Multiple sequence alignment
B) Tree inference
C) Phylogenetic tree visualization
D) Molecular clock estimation

7) Describe the main steps involved in using MAFFT to align a set of DNA sequences.

8) What kind of files are used to run MAFFT?

9) Outline the basic steps to run iqtree method at the command line including the necessary input files and the optional parameters that we specified.

10) Explain how to interpret the bootstrap values produced by IQ-TREE in a phylogenetic tree.

11) Describe the main steps at the R command line involved in using admixR to identify introgression in genomic data.

12) How does an ABBA BABA test work?

13) Explain how admixR distinguishes between introgression and incomplete lineage sorting in phylogenetic analyses.

14) How do you determine that the value of a D statistic is significant in admixR?

15) What is the difference between a positive and negative D statistic?

16) What is the main purpose of using PCA in population genetics?

A) To infer phylogenetic relationships between populations
B) To detect natural selection acting on specific genes
C) To visualize genetic variation and population structure
D) To estimate divergence times between populations 

17) Describe the general steps involved in performing a PCA analysis using PLINK at the command line

18) In a PCA plot generated by PLINK, each point represents:

A) An individual
B) A SNP
C) A population
D) A genetic marker

19) In a PCA plot, which axis accounts for most of the variance in the SNP data?

20) In the following line of code, what does the --allow-extra-chr option do?

plink --vcf $VCF --double-id --allow-extra-chr --set-missing-var-ids @:# --extract cichlids.prune.in --make-bed --pca --out cichlids

21) What is an amplicon sequence variant (ASV)?

22) What is alpha diversity in the context of a microbiome analysis?

23) What is beta diversity in the context of a microbiome analysis?

24) Describe the concept of rarefaction in microbiome analysis and explain why it is used.

25) Which of the following is a metric commonly used to calculate alpha diversity?

A) Bray-Curtis dissimilarity
B) Jaccard index
C) Shannon diversity index
D) UniFrac distance